Formatting Guidelines for Papers Published in Informing Science Institute journals
PLACE THE TITLE OF YOUR PAPER HERE
[Do not enter author information until after the paper is accepted.]
Name of the First Author*	Affiliation, City, Country	Email@Address
If there are additional au-thors, put names in sepa-rate rows	Affiliation, City, Country 	email
* Corresponding author
ABSTRACT [IF A TOPIC IS NOT APPLICABLE, ENTER NA IN THE ROW]
Aim/Purpose	[In a sentence or two, explain the need for this paper. What is the problem?]
Background	[Explain in a sentence or two in what way this paper addresses the problem.] 
Methodology	[Mention for the reader the methods used in the paper. 
Briefly describe any research sample.]
Contribution	[How does this paper contribute to the body of knowledge?]
Findings	[List the paper’s major findings.]
Recommendations 
for Practitioners	[Enter any recommendations for practitioners.]
Recommendations 
for Researchers 	[Enter recommendations your paper makes for researchers.]
Impact on Society	[What are the larger implications of the paper’s findings?]
Future Research	[Now that this paper has advanced your findings, what research should follow?]
Keywords	Place three or more keywords here, separated by commas 

USING THIS FILE TO FORMAT YOUR PAPER 
If you are not using Word as your word processor, print this document and read more about the re-quired formatting guidelines. However, if you are using Word, you can (and should) save time by using this file to attach the correct paragraph formatting to your paper. This file contains not only instructions for you, but also instructions for Word on how to format paragraphs as Heading 1, Heading 2, and such. 
Different versions of Word have different ways of saving these formatting styles on your computer. First, open this document on your computer.
•	If you are using Word 2010, select the Home tab, click on Change Styles, and then Style Set. Scroll to the bottom of the list of styles and select Save as Quick Style Set. Save these styles as a Quick Style Set giving it a meaningful name.
•	If you are using Word 2016, select the Design tab and click on the pull-down arrow at the right of the display of designs. Select Save as New Style Set. Save this style set, giving it a meaningful name.
To attach the styles to a blank document or one that you have already created, do the following. Open the document. 
•	If you are using Word 2010, select the Home tab, click on Change Styles, and then Style Set. The name you gave the style set should appear in the list. Click on it to attach it to your file.
•	If you are using Word 2016, select the Design tab and click on the pull-down arrow at the right of the display of designs. The Style Set you saved should appear under Custom. Click on the name to attach it to your document.
If you don’t want to save the styles, save this document under a new name. Delete from the top of page 2 to the end. You will have the correct formatting for the first page and the paragraphs, as well as the paragraph styles and can copy and paste your paper into it. 
GENERAL INFORMATION
Prepare your manuscript in Microsoft Word or export it from a different word processor into RTF format, following the specifications that we show here.
For papers that deal with data analysis, make the data available to readers via a link you place in your paper to a website where you store your data, if at all possible. We can help.
When you submit your paper for review, make sure that you have anonymized your paper by remov-ing all references to yourself or your institution. Make sure these are removed from the document properties as well. To have your paper reviewed, you need first to submit a “blinded” version (with-out author or affiliation information) that can be blind reviewed. After your paper is accepted, add the author information.
LANGUAGE AND GRAMMAR CONSISTENCY
We publish papers written in English. If you have questions on English grammar or punctuation, search the web for guidance. You can find excellent guides at http://www.grammarbook.com and http://grammar.ccc.commnet.edu/grammar 
While we prefer the use of U.S. spelling, we accept other versions of English as long as they are used consistently throughout the paper.
Use of the singular “they”
When the gender of a person is unknown, the use of the singular “they” is accepted. Do not use ex-pressions such as “s/he” or “his or her.” For example, “Each student submitted their art portfolio to the committee” is correct. If using the singular “they” as a generic third-person pronoun seems awk-ward, try rewording the sentence or using the plural, such as “All students submitted their art portfo-lios to the committee” or “The art portfolio of each student was submitted to the committee.” More information about this is at https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/singular-they
